alchemy-web/docs/providers/aws-control/evidently/segment.md, before:

---
title: Managing AWS Evidently Segments with Alchemy
description: Learn how to create, update, and manage AWS Evidently Segments using Alchemy Cloud Control.
---

# Segment

The Segment resource lets you create and manage [AWS Evidently Segments](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/evidently/latest/userguide/) using AWS Cloud Control API.

http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-evidently-segment.html

## Minimal Example

```ts
import AWS from "alchemy/aws/control";

const segment = await AWS.Evidently.Segment("segment-example", {
  Name: "segment-",
  Tags: { Environment: "production", ManagedBy: "Alchemy" },
  Description: "A segment resource managed by Alchemy",
});
```

## Advanced Configuration

Create a segment with additional configuration:

```ts
import AWS from "alchemy/aws/control";

const advancedSegment = await AWS.Evidently.Segment("advanced-segment", {
  Name: "segment-",
  Tags: {
    Environment: "production",
    Team: "DevOps",
    Project: "MyApp",
    CostCenter: "Engineering",
    ManagedBy: "Alchemy",
  },
  Description: "A segment resource managed by Alchemy",
});
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): generate resource-specific docs with LLM

alchemy-web/docs/providers/aws-control/evidently/segment.md, after:

---
title: Managing AWS Evidently Segments with Alchemy
description: Learn how to create, update, and manage AWS Evidently Segments using Alchemy Cloud Control.
---

# Segment

The Segment resource lets you manage [AWS Evidently Segments](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/evidently/latest/userguide/) for targeting specific user groups in your experiments and feature launches.

## Minimal Example

Create a basic segment with a pattern and description.

```ts
import AWS from "alchemy/aws/control";

const userSegment = await AWS.Evidently.Segment("user-segment", {
  Name: "ActiveUsers",
  Pattern: "{ \"type\": \"user\", \"active\": true }",
  Description: "Segment for users who are currently active."
});
```

## Advanced Configuration

Configure a segment with tags for better organization and management.

```ts
const taggedSegment = await AWS.Evidently.Segment("tagged-segment", {
  Name: "VIPUsers",
  Pattern: "{ \"type\": \"user\", \"status\": \"VIP\" }",
  Description: "Segment for VIP users.",
  Tags: [
    { Key: "Environment", Value: "Production" },
    { Key: "Team", Value: "Marketing" }
  ]
});
```

## Adopting an Existing Segment

Use the `adopt` property to adopt an existing segment instead of failing if it already exists.

```ts
const existingSegment = await AWS.Evidently.Segment("existing-segment", {
  Name: "ExistingSegmentName",
  Pattern: "{ \"type\": \"user\", \"existing\": true }",
  Description: "This segment is adopted to avoid conflicts.",
  adopt: true
});
```
