alchemy-web/src/content/docs/concepts/cli.mdx, before:

---
title: CLI
description: The `alchemy` CLI deploys, destroys, and runs your Alchemy programs.
sidebar:
  order: 0
---
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Alchemy's CLI provides a convenient way to manage your infrastructure and create new projects.

:::note[Embedding Alchemy]
Alchemy is designed to be an embeddable library. The `alchemy` CLI is an optional convenience wrapper around the library. 

When you initialize your app, Alchemy will automatically parse CLI arguments:

```ts
const app = await alchemy("my-app")
```

The `alchemy` CLI passes through these arguments when it invokes your program.
:::

## `deploy`

```sh
alchemy deploy [script] [options]
```

Deploy an Alchemy project by running `alchemy deploy`. 

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `--watch` - Watch for changes to infrastructure and redeploy automatically (default: false)
- `--force` - Apply updates to resources even if there are no changes (default: false)
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `deploy` command:

```sh
# deploy the default stage
alchemy deploy 

# specify a stage
alchemy deploy --stage prod 

# use a custom script
alchemy deploy ./my-infra.ts 

# use an environment file
alchemy deploy --env-file .env.prod 

# watch and deploy changes to the cloud
alchemy deploy --watch 

# force update all resources even without changes
alchemy deploy --force 
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the deploy command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun ./alchemy.run.ts
    bun --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx ./alchemy.run.ts
    tsx --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node ./alchemy.run.ts
    node --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types ./alchemy.run.ts
    node --experimental-strip-types --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A ./alchemy.run.ts
    deno run -A --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## `destroy`

```sh
alchemy destroy [script] [options]
```

Destroy all resources in an Alchemy project.

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `destroy` command:

```sh
# destroy the default stage
alchemy destroy 

# specify a stage
alchemy destroy --stage prod 

# use a custom script
alchemy destroy ./my-infra.ts 

# use an environment file
alchemy destroy --env-file .env.prod 
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the destroy command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## `dev`

```sh
alchemy dev [script] [options]
```

Run an Alchemy program in dev-mode with local simulation and hot reloading.

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `--force` - Apply updates to resources even if there are no changes (default: false)
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `dev` command:

```sh
# run dev mode with default settings
alchemy dev

# specify a stage
alchemy dev --stage dev

# use a custom script
alchemy dev ./my-infra.ts

# use an environment file
alchemy dev --env-file .env.dev

# force update all resources even without changes
alchemy dev --force
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the dev command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## `run`

```sh
alchemy run [script] [options]
```

Run an Alchemy program with read-only access to your infrastructure. No changes will be applied to your resources.

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `--watch` - Watch for changes to infrastructure and redeploy automatically (default: `false`)
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `run` command:

```sh
# run a script in read-only mode
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts

# watch for changes and re-run
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts --watch

# specify a stage
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts --stage dev

# use an environment file
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts --env-file .env.prod
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the run command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    bun --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    tsx --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    node --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    node --experimental-strip-types --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    deno run -A --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::


## `create`

```sh
alchemy create [name] [options]
```

Create a new Alchemy project from a template.

- `name` (optional): Project name or path
- `--template` - Project template type (choices: "typescript", "vite", "astro", "react-router", "sveltekit", "tanstack-start", "rwsdk", "nuxt")
- `--yes` - Skip prompts and use defaults (default: `false`)
- `--overwrite` - Overwrite existing directory (default: `false`)
- `--install` - Install dependencies after scaffolding
- `--pm` - Package manager to use (choices: "bun", "npm", "pnpm", "yarn", "deno")
- `--vibe-rules` - Setup vibe-rules for the specified editor (choices: "cursor", "windsurf", "vscode", "zed", "claude-code", "gemini", "codex", "amp", "clinerules", "roo", "unified")
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `create` command:

```sh
# create a new project interactively
alchemy create my-app

# create with a specific template
alchemy create my-app --template vite

# skip prompts and use defaults
alchemy create my-app --yes

# specify package manager
alchemy create my-app --pm bun

# overwrite existing directory
alchemy create my-app --overwrite

# create without installing dependencies
alchemy create my-app --no-install
```
:::

Commit message:

feat(cli): support --adopt flag to blanket adopt resources (#900)

alchemy-web/src/content/docs/concepts/cli.mdx, after:

---
title: CLI
description: The `alchemy` CLI deploys, destroys, and runs your Alchemy programs.
sidebar:
  order: 0
---
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Alchemy's CLI provides a convenient way to manage your infrastructure and create new projects.

:::note[Embedding Alchemy]
Alchemy is designed to be an embeddable library. The `alchemy` CLI is an optional convenience wrapper around the library. 

When you initialize your app, Alchemy will automatically parse CLI arguments:

```ts
const app = await alchemy("my-app")
```

The `alchemy` CLI passes through these arguments when it invokes your program.
:::

## `deploy`

```sh
alchemy deploy [script] [options]
```

Deploy an Alchemy project by running `alchemy deploy`. 

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `--watch` - Watch for changes to infrastructure and redeploy automatically (default: false)
- `--force` - Apply updates to resources even if there are no changes (default: false)
- `--adopt` - Adopt existing resources that are not yet managed by your Alchemy app (default: false)
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `deploy` command:

```sh
# deploy the default stage
alchemy deploy 

# specify a stage
alchemy deploy --stage prod 

# adopt existing resources
alchemy deploy --adopt 

# use a custom script
alchemy deploy ./my-infra.ts 

# use an environment file
alchemy deploy --env-file .env.prod 

# watch and deploy changes to the cloud
alchemy deploy --watch 

# force update all resources even without changes
alchemy deploy --force 
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the deploy command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun ./alchemy.run.ts
    bun --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx ./alchemy.run.ts
    tsx --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node ./alchemy.run.ts
    node --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types ./alchemy.run.ts
    node --experimental-strip-types --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A ./alchemy.run.ts
    deno run -A --watch ./alchemy.run.ts
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## `destroy`

```sh
alchemy destroy [script] [options]
```

Destroy all resources in an Alchemy project.

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `destroy` command:

```sh
# destroy the default stage
alchemy destroy 

# specify a stage
alchemy destroy --stage prod 

# use a custom script
alchemy destroy ./my-infra.ts 

# use an environment file
alchemy destroy --env-file .env.prod 
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the destroy command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A ./alchemy.run.ts --destroy
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## `dev`

```sh
alchemy dev [script] [options]
```

Run an Alchemy program in dev-mode with local simulation and hot reloading.

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `--force` - Apply updates to resources even if there are no changes (default: false)
- `--adopt` - Adopt existing resources that are not yet managed by your Alchemy app (default: false)
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `dev` command:

```sh
# run dev mode with default settings
alchemy dev

# specify a stage
alchemy dev --stage dev

# use a custom script
alchemy dev ./my-infra.ts

# use an environment file
alchemy dev --env-file .env.dev

# force update all resources even without changes
alchemy dev --force

# adopt existing resources
alchemy dev --adopt 
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the dev command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## `run`

```sh
alchemy run [script] [options]
```

Run an Alchemy program with read-only access to your infrastructure. No changes will be applied to your resources.

- `script` (optional): Path to the entrypoint file. Defaults to `./alchemy.run.ts` or `./alchemy.run.js`
- `--cwd` - Path to the project directory (defaults to current directory)
- `--quiet` - Suppress Create/Update/Delete messages (default: `false`) 
- `--stage` - Specify which stage/environment to target. Defaults to your username (`$USER`, or `$USERNAME` on Windows)
- `--env-file` - Path to environment file to load
- `--watch` - Watch for changes to infrastructure and redeploy automatically (default: `false`)
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `run` command:

```sh
# run a script in read-only mode
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts

# watch for changes and re-run
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts --watch

# specify a stage
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts --stage dev

# use an environment file
alchemy run ./scripts/my-script.ts --env-file .env.prod
```
:::

:::note[Equivalent Runtime Commands]

You can also run the run command directly with your preferred JavaScript runtime:

<Tabs syncKey="runtime">
  <TabItem label="bun">
    ```sh
    bun ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    bun --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tsx">
    ```sh
    tsx ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    tsx --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 22+">
    ```sh
    node ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    node --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="node 20">
    ```sh
    node --experimental-strip-types ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    node --experimental-strip-types --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="deno">
    ```sh
    deno run -A ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    deno run -A --watch ./alchemy.run.ts --read
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::


## `create`

```sh
alchemy create [name] [options]
```

Create a new Alchemy project from a template.

- `name` (optional): Project name or path
- `--template` - Project template type (choices: "typescript", "vite", "astro", "react-router", "sveltekit", "tanstack-start", "rwsdk", "nuxt")
- `--yes` - Skip prompts and use defaults (default: `false`)
- `--overwrite` - Overwrite existing directory (default: `false`)
- `--install` - Install dependencies after scaffolding
- `--pm` - Package manager to use (choices: "bun", "npm", "pnpm", "yarn", "deno")
- `--vibe-rules` - Setup vibe-rules for the specified editor (choices: "cursor", "windsurf", "vscode", "zed", "claude-code", "gemini", "codex", "amp", "clinerules", "roo", "unified")
- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

:::tip

Here are some examples of how to use the `create` command:

```sh
# create a new project interactively
alchemy create my-app

# create with a specific template
alchemy create my-app --template vite

# skip prompts and use defaults
alchemy create my-app --yes

# specify package manager
alchemy create my-app --pm bun

# overwrite existing directory
alchemy create my-app --overwrite

# create without installing dependencies
alchemy create my-app --no-install
```
:::
