alchemy-web/src/content/docs/concepts/profiles.mdx, before:

---
title: Profiles
description: Set up multiple profiles for your Alchemy projects.
sidebar:
  order: 0
---

Alchemy profiles provide a simple way to manage credentials for cloud providers without juggling multiple `.env` files or separate `login` CLI commands.

:::note
Profiles are stored locally in your `~/.alchemy` directory and behave similarly to [AWS profiles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html).
:::

## Configure Profile

To create (or update) a profile, run the `alchemy configure` command:

```bash
alchemy configure

# or select a specific profile
alchemy configure --profile prod
```

:::tip
Unless otherwise specified, Alchemy will use the `default` profile which is usually what you want unless you are managing multiple accounts.
:::

## Login

After configuring a profile, you can use the `alchemy login` command to refresh each provider's credentials.

```bash
# log in to the default profile
alchemy login

# log in to a named profile
alchemy login --profile prod
```

:::tip
Depending on the Provider, credentials may expire, so a good habit is to start your day by logging in to your providers with `alchemy login`.
:::

## Logout

To clear a profile's credentials, run the `alchemy logout` command:

```bash
alchemy logout

# log out of a specific profile 
alchemy logout --profile prod
```

## Select Profile

The `alchemy deploy`, `dev`, `run` and `destroy` commands all support the `--profile` flag to specify which profile to use.

```bash
alchemy deploy --profile prod
```

You can override the profile using environment variables:

```bash
ALCHEMY_PROFILE=prod alchemy deploy
```

Or just a specific provider's default profile (e.g. Cloudflare):

```bash
CLOUDFLARE_PROFILE=prod alchemy deploy
```

Resources that support profiles can also be configured individually:  
```ts
import { Worker } from "alchemy/cloudflare";

const worker = await Worker("my-worker", {
  profile: "prod",
});
```

## Configuration and Credential Files

The profile configuration and credential files are stored in your `~/.alchemy` directory:

```bash
# Configuration file (no sensitive data)
~/.alchemy/config.json 

# Credentials file (sensitive data)
~/.alchemy/credentials/default/cloudflare.json 
```

### `config.json`

The `alchemy configure` command will create or update the `config.json` file with the profile configuration. No sensitive data is stored in this file.

For example, the below `config.json` contains two profiles each with a Cloudflare provider configured to use OAuth:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "profiles": {
    // The default profile
    "default": {
      "cloudflare": {
        "method": "oauth",
        "metadata": {
          "id": "<account-id>",
          "name": "<account-name>"
        },
        "scopes": [
          "account:read",
          "user:read",
          "workers:write"
        ]
      }
    },
    // A named profile (e.g. alchemy configure --profile prod)
    "prod": {
      "cloudflare": {
        "method": "api-token",
        "metadata": {
          "id": "<account-id>",
          "name": "<account-name>"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### `{profile}/{provider}.json`

The `alchemy login` command will create or update the `credentials/<profile>/<provider>.json` file with the provider's credentials.

For example, the below `credentials/prod/cloudflare.json` contains the OAUth access and refresh tokens for the Cloudflare provider configured in the `prod` profile:

```json
{
  "type": "oauth",
  "access": "<access token>",
  "refresh": "<refresh token>",
  "expires": 1758577621359
}
```

Commit message:

chore: document global profile config

alchemy-web/src/content/docs/concepts/profiles.mdx, after:

---
title: Profiles
description: Set up multiple profiles for your Alchemy projects.
sidebar:
  order: 0
---

Alchemy profiles provide a simple way to manage credentials for cloud providers without juggling multiple `.env` files or separate `login` CLI commands.

:::note
Profiles are stored locally in your `~/.alchemy` directory and behave similarly to [AWS profiles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html).
:::

## Configure Profile

To create (or update) a profile, run the `alchemy configure` command:

```bash
alchemy configure

# or select a specific profile
alchemy configure --profile prod
```

:::tip
Unless otherwise specified, Alchemy will use the `default` profile which is usually what you want unless you are managing multiple accounts.
:::

## Login

After configuring a profile, you can use the `alchemy login` command to refresh each provider's credentials.

```bash
# log in to the default profile
alchemy login

# log in to a named profile
alchemy login --profile prod
```

:::tip
Depending on the Provider, credentials may expire, so a good habit is to start your day by logging in to your providers with `alchemy login`.
:::

## Logout

To clear a profile's credentials, run the `alchemy logout` command:

```bash
alchemy logout

# log out of a specific profile 
alchemy logout --profile prod
```

## Select Profile

The `alchemy deploy`, `dev`, `run` and `destroy` commands all support the `--profile` flag to specify which profile to use.

```bash
alchemy deploy --profile prod
```

You can override the profile using environment variables:

```bash
ALCHEMY_PROFILE=prod alchemy deploy
```

Or just a specific provider's default profile (e.g. Cloudflare):

```bash
CLOUDFLARE_PROFILE=prod alchemy deploy
```

Resources that support profiles can also be configured individually:  
```ts
import { Worker } from "alchemy/cloudflare";

const worker = await Worker("my-worker", {
  profile: "prod",
});
```

You can also set the profile globally (for all resources in the App):
```ts
await alchemy("my-app", {
  profile: "prod",
})
```

## Configuration and Credential Files

The profile configuration and credential files are stored in your `~/.alchemy` directory:

```bash
# Configuration file (no sensitive data)
~/.alchemy/config.json 

# Credentials file (sensitive data)
~/.alchemy/credentials/default/cloudflare.json 
```

### `config.json`

The `alchemy configure` command will create or update the `config.json` file with the profile configuration. No sensitive data is stored in this file.

For example, the below `config.json` contains two profiles each with a Cloudflare provider configured to use OAuth:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "profiles": {
    // The default profile
    "default": {
      "cloudflare": {
        "method": "oauth",
        "metadata": {
          "id": "<account-id>",
          "name": "<account-name>"
        },
        "scopes": [
          "account:read",
          "user:read",
          "workers:write"
        ]
      }
    },
    // A named profile (e.g. alchemy configure --profile prod)
    "prod": {
      "cloudflare": {
        "method": "api-token",
        "metadata": {
          "id": "<account-id>",
          "name": "<account-name>"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### `{profile}/{provider}.json`

The `alchemy login` command will create or update the `credentials/<profile>/<provider>.json` file with the provider's credentials.

For example, the below `credentials/prod/cloudflare.json` contains the OAUth access and refresh tokens for the Cloudflare provider configured in the `prod` profile:

```json
{
  "type": "oauth",
  "access": "<access token>",
  "refresh": "<refresh token>",
  "expires": 1758577621359
}
```
