alchemy-web/src/content/docs/concepts/resource.mdx, before:

---
title: Resource
description: Learn about Resources, the core building blocks of Alchemy.
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

Resources are the core building blocks of Alchemy. Each resource represents a piece of infrastructure or configuration that can be created, updated, and deleted automatically.

## What is a Resource?

A Resource is simply a memoized async function that implemented a lifecycle handler for three phases:
1. `create` - what to do when first creating the resource
2. `update` - what to do when updating a resource
3. `delete` - what to when deleting a resource

## Resource ID

When creating a resource, you always pass an `id` that is unique within the Resource's [Scope](/concepts/scope).

```ts
await MyResource("id")
```

This ID is what Alchemy uses to track the state of the resource and trigger the appropriate create/update/delete phase.

## Input Props

Each Resource has an interface for its "input properties"

```typescript
export interface DatabaseProps {
  name: string;
  branchId: string;
  projectId: string;
  // Other properties...
}
```

## Output Attributes

Each Resource has an interface for its "output attributes":

```typescript
export interface Database extends Resource<"neon::Database">, DatabaseProps {
  id: string;
  createdAt: number;
  // Additional properties...
}
```

:::caution
This interface must extend `Resource<..>`
:::

## Provider

Each Resource exports a "Provider" function with a globally unique name and an implementation of the lifecycle handler logic.

```typescript
export const Database = Resource(
  "neon::Database",
  async function(this: Context<Database>, id: string, props: DatabaseProps): Promise<Database> {
    if (this.phase === "delete") {
      // Delete resource logic
      // ...
      return this.destroy();
    } else if (this.phase === "update") {
      // Update resource logic
      // ...
      return this({/* updated resource */});
    } else {
      // Create resource logic
      // ...
      return this({/* new resource */});
    }
  }
);
```

:::tip
By Convention, the name of this exported `const` should match the name of your Resource's interface.
:::

Let's break this down a bit futher, since it may seem confusing at first.

## Fully Qualified Name (FQN)

Each Resource has a globally unique name (aka. fully qualified name), e.g `"neon:Database"`:

```ts
export const Database = Resource("neon::Database"),
```

Alchemy and uses this FQN to delete orphaned resources (stored in your [State](/concepts/state) files) by looking up the corresponding "provider".

## Lifecycle Function

The Resource's lifecycle handler is defined using an `async function` declaration with 3 required arguments:

```ts
async function(
  // the resource's state/context is bound to `this`
  this: Context<Database>, 
  // the id of the resource (unique within a SCope)
  id: string, 
  // the input properties
  props: DatabaseProps
): Promise<Database>
```

:::caution
It must be function declaration (not an arrow function) because the Resource's context is passed through as the `this: Context<Database>` parameter.
:::

## Lifecycle Phases

The lifecycle handler is a simple function that handles the 3 phases: `"create"`, `"update"` or `"delete"`:

```ts
if (this.phase === "delete") {
  // Delete resource logic
  // ...
  return this.destroy();
} else if (this.phase === "update") {
  // Update resource logic
  // ...
  return this({/* updated properties */});
} else {
  // Create resource logic
  // ...
  return this({/* initial properties */});
}
```

## Create

To construct the resource (including your properites and Alchemy's intrinsic properties), call `this(props)` with your output properties:

```ts
return this({/* updated properties */});
```

What's going on here? `this` is a function? Huh?

Alchemy resources are implemented with pure functions, but are designed to emulate classes (except with an async constructor that implements a CRUD lifecycle handler).

`this` is analagous to `super` in a standard class:
```ts
return super({/* updated properties */});
```

:::tip
If this syntax freaks you out too much, it is also aliased as `this.create`:
```ts
return this.create({/* updated properties */});
```
:::

## Destroy

When a resource is being deleted, you must return `this.destroy()` to signal that the resource deletion process is complete.

:::tip
This also enables type inference since `this.destroy()` returns `never`, so the type of the resource can be inferred from the return type of the function.
:::

## Destroy Strategy

By default, Alchemy will destroy resources in a sequential order. You can change this behavior for a Resource by passing the `destroyStrategy` option to the Resource constructor.

```ts
const Database = Resource(
  "neon::Database",
  { destroyStrategy: "parallel" },
  async function(this: Context<Database>, id: string, props: DatabaseProps): Promise<Database> {
    if (this.phase === "delete") {
      return this.destroy();
    }
    // these sub-resources will be deleted in parallel during the Database resource deletion
    await SubResource("sub-resource", {});
    await OtherResource("other-resource", {});
  }
);
```

:::tip
You can also set the `destroyStrategy` option globally or within a Scope using `alchemy.run`. See [Scope](/concepts/scope#destroy-strategy) for more details.
:::

## Adoption

When creating a resource, Alchemy will fail if a resource with the same name already exists. Resource adoption allows you to opt in to using the pre-existing resource instead.

```typescript
// Without adoption - fails if bucket already exists
const bucket = await R2Bucket("my-bucket", {
  name: "existing-bucket",
});

// With adoption - uses existing bucket if it exists
const bucket = await R2Bucket("my-bucket", {
  name: "existing-bucket",
  adopt: true,
});
```

During the **create phase**, if a resource already exists:
- **Without adoption** (default): Throws an "already exists" error
- **With adoption**: Finds and adopts the existing resource

## Replacement

Sometimes it's impossible to UPDATE a resource (e.g., you cannot rename an R2 Bucket). In these cases, you need to perform a REPLACE operation to:

1. create a new version of the Resource and update references
2. delete the old version of the Resource (or leave it orphaned)

#### Trigger Replacement

During the **update phase**, you can trigger a replacement by calling `this.replace()`:

```typescript
// Implementation pattern
if (this.phase === "update") {
  if (this.output.name !== props.name) {
    // trigger replace and terminate this "update" phase
    this.replace();
    // (unreachable code)
  } else {
    return updateResource();
  }
}
```

#### Create new

After you call `this.replace()`, the "update" phase will terminate and be re-invoked with "create" (to create the new resource).

```ts
if (this.phase === "create") {
  return createNewResource();
}
```

#### Delete old

After all downstream dependencies have been updated and you finally call `app.finalize()`, Alchemy will then invoke the "delete" phase on the old resource.

```ts
const app = await alchemy("app");

// ... create resources

await app.finalize(); // finalize scopes by deleting "orphaned" and "replaced" resources
```

#### Immediate replacement

It is sometimes required to destory the old resource before creating the one, e.g. when updating a resource that requires a unique name.

To address this you can trigger a replacement immediately by calling `this.replace(true)`. This will destroy the old resource before creating the new one.

```ts
this.replace(true);
```

:::caution
`this.replace(true)` can cause downtime since a resource is deleted before the new one is created. Downtime can be avoided by appending a random string to the end of the resource name on the handler level, this creates different resource names and avoids the need to destroy the old resource prior to creating the new one.

```ts
const name = `${props.name}-${this.output?.slug ?? generateSlug()}`;

if (this.phase === "update") {
  if (this.output?.name === name) {
    this.replace(); // don't need `true` here because name is unique
  }
}

return this({
  ...props,
  name,
});
```
::: 

## Testing

See the [Testing](/concepts/testing) documentation for a comprehensive walkthrough on how to test your own resources.

Commit message:

feat(cli): support --adopt flag to blanket adopt resources (#900)

alchemy-web/src/content/docs/concepts/resource.mdx, after:

---
title: Resource
description: Learn about Resources, the core building blocks of Alchemy.
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

Resources are the core building blocks of Alchemy. Each resource represents a piece of infrastructure or configuration that can be created, updated, and deleted automatically.

## What is a Resource?

A Resource is simply a memoized async function that implemented a lifecycle handler for three phases:
1. `create` - what to do when first creating the resource
2. `update` - what to do when updating a resource
3. `delete` - what to when deleting a resource

## Resource ID

When creating a resource, you always pass an `id` that is unique within the Resource's [Scope](/concepts/scope).

```ts
await MyResource("id")
```

This ID is what Alchemy uses to track the state of the resource and trigger the appropriate create/update/delete phase.

## Input Props

Each Resource has an interface for its "input properties"

```typescript
export interface DatabaseProps {
  name: string;
  branchId: string;
  projectId: string;
  // Other properties...
}
```

## Output Attributes

Each Resource has an interface for its "output attributes":

```typescript
export interface Database extends Resource<"neon::Database">, DatabaseProps {
  id: string;
  createdAt: number;
  // Additional properties...
}
```

:::caution
This interface must extend `Resource<..>`
:::

## Provider

Each Resource exports a "Provider" function with a globally unique name and an implementation of the lifecycle handler logic.

```typescript
export const Database = Resource(
  "neon::Database",
  async function(this: Context<Database>, id: string, props: DatabaseProps): Promise<Database> {
    if (this.phase === "delete") {
      // Delete resource logic
      // ...
      return this.destroy();
    } else if (this.phase === "update") {
      // Update resource logic
      // ...
      return this({/* updated resource */});
    } else {
      // Create resource logic
      // ...
      return this({/* new resource */});
    }
  }
);
```

:::tip
By Convention, the name of this exported `const` should match the name of your Resource's interface.
:::

Let's break this down a bit futher, since it may seem confusing at first.

## Fully Qualified Name (FQN)

Each Resource has a globally unique name (aka. fully qualified name), e.g `"neon:Database"`:

```ts
export const Database = Resource("neon::Database"),
```

Alchemy and uses this FQN to delete orphaned resources (stored in your [State](/concepts/state) files) by looking up the corresponding "provider".

## Lifecycle Function

The Resource's lifecycle handler is defined using an `async function` declaration with 3 required arguments:

```ts
async function(
  // the resource's state/context is bound to `this`
  this: Context<Database>, 
  // the id of the resource (unique within a SCope)
  id: string, 
  // the input properties
  props: DatabaseProps
): Promise<Database>
```

:::caution
It must be function declaration (not an arrow function) because the Resource's context is passed through as the `this: Context<Database>` parameter.
:::

## Lifecycle Phases

The lifecycle handler is a simple function that handles the 3 phases: `"create"`, `"update"` or `"delete"`:

```ts
if (this.phase === "delete") {
  // Delete resource logic
  // ...
  return this.destroy();
} else if (this.phase === "update") {
  // Update resource logic
  // ...
  return this({/* updated properties */});
} else {
  // Create resource logic
  // ...
  return this({/* initial properties */});
}
```

## Create

To construct the resource (including your properites and Alchemy's intrinsic properties), call `this(props)` with your output properties:

```ts
return this({/* updated properties */});
```

What's going on here? `this` is a function? Huh?

Alchemy resources are implemented with pure functions, but are designed to emulate classes (except with an async constructor that implements a CRUD lifecycle handler).

`this` is analagous to `super` in a standard class:
```ts
return super({/* updated properties */});
```

:::tip
If this syntax freaks you out too much, it is also aliased as `this.create`:
```ts
return this.create({/* updated properties */});
```
:::

## Destroy

When a resource is being deleted, you must return `this.destroy()` to signal that the resource deletion process is complete.

:::tip
This also enables type inference since `this.destroy()` returns `never`, so the type of the resource can be inferred from the return type of the function.
:::

## Destroy Strategy

By default, Alchemy will destroy resources in a sequential order. You can change this behavior for a Resource by passing the `destroyStrategy` option to the Resource constructor.

```ts
const Database = Resource(
  "neon::Database",
  { destroyStrategy: "parallel" },
  async function(this: Context<Database>, id: string, props: DatabaseProps): Promise<Database> {
    if (this.phase === "delete") {
      return this.destroy();
    }
    // these sub-resources will be deleted in parallel during the Database resource deletion
    await SubResource("sub-resource", {});
    await OtherResource("other-resource", {});
  }
);
```

:::tip
You can also set the `destroyStrategy` option globally or within a Scope using `alchemy.run`. See [Scope](/concepts/scope#destroy-strategy) for more details.
:::

## Adoption

When creating a resource, Alchemy will fail if a resource with the same name already exists. Resource adoption allows you to opt in to using the pre-existing resource instead.

You can opt-in to adoption on a per-resource basis:

```typescript
// Without adoption - fails if bucket already exists
const bucket = await R2Bucket("my-bucket", {
  name: "existing-bucket",
});

// With adoption - uses existing bucket if it exists
const bucket = await R2Bucket("my-bucket", {
  name: "existing-bucket",
  adopt: true,
});
```

Or set `--adopt` to adopt all resources without changing code:
```sh
alchemy deploy --adopt
```

During the **create phase**, if a resource already exists:
- **Without adoption** (default): Throws an "already exists" error
- **With adoption**: Finds and adopts the existing resource

## Replacement

Sometimes it's impossible to UPDATE a resource (e.g., you cannot rename an R2 Bucket). In these cases, you need to perform a REPLACE operation to:

1. create a new version of the Resource and update references
2. delete the old version of the Resource (or leave it orphaned)

#### Trigger Replacement

During the **update phase**, you can trigger a replacement by calling `this.replace()`:

```typescript
// Implementation pattern
if (this.phase === "update") {
  if (this.output.name !== props.name) {
    // trigger replace and terminate this "update" phase
    this.replace();
    // (unreachable code)
  } else {
    return updateResource();
  }
}
```

#### Create new

After you call `this.replace()`, the "update" phase will terminate and be re-invoked with "create" (to create the new resource).

```ts
if (this.phase === "create") {
  return createNewResource();
}
```

#### Delete old

After all downstream dependencies have been updated and you finally call `app.finalize()`, Alchemy will then invoke the "delete" phase on the old resource.

```ts
const app = await alchemy("app");

// ... create resources

await app.finalize(); // finalize scopes by deleting "orphaned" and "replaced" resources
```

#### Immediate replacement

It is sometimes required to destory the old resource before creating the one, e.g. when updating a resource that requires a unique name.

To address this you can trigger a replacement immediately by calling `this.replace(true)`. This will destroy the old resource before creating the new one.

```ts
this.replace(true);
```

:::caution
`this.replace(true)` can cause downtime since a resource is deleted before the new one is created. Downtime can be avoided by appending a random string to the end of the resource name on the handler level, this creates different resource names and avoids the need to destroy the old resource prior to creating the new one.

```ts
const name = `${props.name}-${this.output?.slug ?? generateSlug()}`;

if (this.phase === "update") {
  if (this.output?.name === name) {
    this.replace(); // don't need `true` here because name is unique
  }
}

return this({
  ...props,
  name,
});
```
::: 

## Testing

See the [Testing](/concepts/testing) documentation for a comprehensive walkthrough on how to test your own resources.
