alchemy-web/docs/providers/aws-control/ec2/ipampool-cidr.md, before:

---
title: Managing AWS EC2 IPAMPoolCidrs with Alchemy
description: Learn how to create, update, and manage AWS EC2 IPAMPoolCidrs using Alchemy Cloud Control.
---

# IPAMPoolCidr

The IPAMPoolCidr resource allows you to manage [AWS EC2 IPAMPoolCidrs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/latest/userguide/) effectively by specifying CIDR blocks within an IP address management (IPAM) pool.

## Minimal Example

Create a basic IPAMPoolCidr with required properties and a common optional property.

```ts
import AWS from "alchemy/aws/control";

const ipamPoolCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("MyIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-12345678",
  Cidr: "10.0.0.0/24",
  NetmaskLength: 24 // Optional: The length of the CIDR netmask
});
```

## Advanced Configuration

Configure an IPAMPoolCidr with adoption of existing resources.

```ts
const adoptExistingCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("AdoptedIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-87654321",
  Cidr: "192.168.1.0/24",
  NetmaskLength: 24,
  adopt: true // Optional: Adopt existing resource instead of failing
});
```

## Unique Use Case: Multiple CIDRs

Create multiple IPAMPoolCidrs for different subnets within the same IPAM pool.

```ts
const subnetA = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("SubnetA", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-12345678",
  Cidr: "10.0.1.0/24",
  NetmaskLength: 24
});

const subnetB = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("SubnetB", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-12345678",
  Cidr: "10.0.2.0/24",
  NetmaskLength: 24
});
```

## Unique Use Case: Custom Netmask Length

Create an IPAMPoolCidr with a custom netmask length for more granular control.

```ts
const customNetmaskCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("CustomNetmaskCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-12345678",
  Cidr: "172.16.0.0/20", // A larger CIDR block
  NetmaskLength: 20 // Custom netmask length
});
```

Commit message:

fix: improve aws control docs

alchemy-web/docs/providers/aws-control/ec2/ipampool-cidr.md, after:

---
title: Managing AWS EC2 IPAMPoolCidrs with Alchemy
description: Learn how to create, update, and manage AWS EC2 IPAMPoolCidrs using Alchemy Cloud Control.
---

# IPAMPoolCidr

The IPAMPoolCidr resource allows you to manage CIDR blocks within an IP address management (IPAM) pool in AWS. This resource can be used to allocate IP address ranges for your Amazon EC2 instances and other AWS services. For more information, refer to the [AWS EC2 IPAMPoolCidrs documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/latest/userguide/).

## Minimal Example

Create a basic IPAMPoolCidr with required properties and one optional property for the CIDR block.

```ts
import AWS from "alchemy/aws/control";

const BasicIPAMPoolCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("BasicIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-12345678",
  Cidr: "10.0.0.0/24" // Optional: Specify the CIDR block to use
});
```

## Advanced Configuration

In this example, we specify the netmask length to configure a more refined CIDR allocation.

```ts
const AdvancedIPAMPoolCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("AdvancedIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-87654321",
  Cidr: "192.168.1.0/24", // Optional: Specify the CIDR block to use
  NetmaskLength: 24 // Optional: Specify the netmask length
});
```

## Adopting Existing Resources

This example demonstrates how to adopt an existing IPAMPoolCidr resource instead of failing when it already exists.

```ts
const AdoptExistingIPAMPoolCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("AdoptExistingIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-12345678",
  Cidr: "10.1.0.0/24",
  adopt: true // Optional: Enables adoption of an existing resource
});
```

## Creating Multiple CIDRs

This example shows how to create multiple IPAMPoolCidrs by varying CIDR blocks for different use cases.

```ts
const ProductionIPAMPoolCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("ProductionIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-prod",
  Cidr: "10.2.0.0/24"
});

const StagingIPAMPoolCidr = await AWS.EC2.IPAMPoolCidr("StagingIPAMPoolCidr", {
  IpamPoolId: "ipam-pool-staging",
  Cidr: "10.3.0.0/24"
});
```
