alchemy-web/src/content/docs/providers/planetscale/branch.md, before:

---
title: Branch
description: Learn how to create and manage PlanetScale database branches for development workflows and production scaling.
---

The Branch resource lets you create and manage [PlanetScale database branches](https://planetscale.com/docs/concepts/branching) for development workflows, allowing you to safely develop schema changes in isolation.

## Minimal Example

Create a development branch from the main branch:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const devBranch = await Branch("feature-123", {
  name: "feature-123",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
});
```

## Production Branch with Cluster Size

Create a production branch with specific cluster sizing:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const prodBranch = await Branch("production", {
  name: "production",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: true,
  clusterSize: "PS_20",
});
```

## Branch from Another Branch Object

Create a branch using another Branch resource as the parent:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const stagingBranch = await Branch("staging", {
  name: "staging",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
});

const featureBranch = await Branch("feature-456", {
  name: "feature-456",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: stagingBranch, // Using Branch object
  isProduction: false,
});
```

## Branch from Backup

Create a branch restored from a backup:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const restoredBranch = await Branch("restored-data", {
  name: "restored-data",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: true,
  backupId: "backup-123",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
});
```

## Branch with Safe Migrations

Create a branch with safe migrations enabled:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const safeBranch = await Branch("safe-migrations", {
  name: "safe-migrations",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  safeMigrations: true,
});
```

## Adopting Existing Branch

Adopt and manage an existing branch:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const existingBranch = await Branch("existing-feature", {
  name: "existing-feature",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  adopt: true,
  safeMigrations: false,
});
```

## Branch with Seed Data

Create a branch with seeded data from the last successful backup:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const seededBranch = await Branch("seeded-dev", {
  name: "seeded-dev",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  seedData: "last_successful_backup",
});
```

Commit message:

feat(planetscale): allow planetscale resources to be not deleted (#1118)

alchemy-web/src/content/docs/providers/planetscale/branch.md, after:

---
title: Branch
description: Learn how to create and manage PlanetScale database branches for development workflows and production scaling.
---

The Branch resource lets you create and manage [PlanetScale database branches](https://planetscale.com/docs/concepts/branching) for development workflows, allowing you to safely develop schema changes in isolation.

## Minimal Example

Create a development branch from the main branch:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const devBranch = await Branch("feature-123", {
  name: "feature-123",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
});
```

## Deletion

By default, when a branch is deleted, the branch will be removed from the state but not deleted via API. This is to prevent accidental loss of data. This setting can be changed by setting the `delete` property to `true`.

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const devBranch = await Branch("feature-123", {
  name: "feature-123",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  delete: true,
});
```

## Production Branch with Cluster Size

Create a production branch with specific cluster sizing:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const prodBranch = await Branch("production", {
  name: "production",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: true,
  clusterSize: "PS_20",
});
```

## Branch from Another Branch Object

Create a branch using another Branch resource as the parent:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const stagingBranch = await Branch("staging", {
  name: "staging",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
});

const featureBranch = await Branch("feature-456", {
  name: "feature-456",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: stagingBranch, // Using Branch object
  isProduction: false,
});
```

## Branch from Backup

Create a branch restored from a backup:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const restoredBranch = await Branch("restored-data", {
  name: "restored-data",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: true,
  backupId: "backup-123",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
});
```

## Branch with Safe Migrations

Create a branch with safe migrations enabled:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const safeBranch = await Branch("safe-migrations", {
  name: "safe-migrations",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  safeMigrations: true,
});
```

## Adopting Existing Branch

Adopt and manage an existing branch:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const existingBranch = await Branch("existing-feature", {
  name: "existing-feature",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  adopt: true,
  safeMigrations: false,
});
```

## Branch with Seed Data

Create a branch with seeded data from the last successful backup:

```ts
import { Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const seededBranch = await Branch("seeded-dev", {
  name: "seeded-dev",
  organization: "my-org",
  database: "my-database",
  parentBranch: "main",
  isProduction: false,
  seedData: "last_successful_backup",
});
```
