alchemy-web/src/content/docs/providers/planetscale/role.md, before:

---
title: Role
description: Learn how to create and manage PostgreSQL database roles for PlanetScale PostgreSQL branches using Alchemy.
---

The Role resource lets you create and manage [database roles](https://planetscale.com/docs/postgres/roles) for PlanetScale PostgreSQL branches with specific permissions and time-to-live settings.

:::note
Roles are only available for PostgreSQL databases. For MySQL databases, use the [Password](/providers/planetscale/password) resource instead.
:::

## Minimal Example

Create a basic role with full administrator privileges for the `main` branch:

```ts
import { Database, Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const database = await Database("my-db", {
  name: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
  kind: "postgresql",
});
const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database,
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
});
```

:::warning
The `"postgres"` role provides full administrator access to the database. While this can be useful in development, we recommend following the [principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege) and creating roles with specific permissions instead, particularly for production environments.
:::

## Role with Specific Branch

Create a role for a specific branch:

```ts
import { Role, Database, Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const database = await Database("my-db", {
  name: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
  kind: "postgresql",
});

const branch = await Branch("dev-branch", {
  name: "development",
  organization: "my-org",
  database,
  parentBranch: "main",
});

const role = await Role("dev-role", {
  database,
  branch,
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"],
});
```

## Role with Named Database and Branch

You can pass in the database and branch names as strings instead of using the Database and Branch resources. This is useful if you've defined the database or branch outside of Alchemy:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role = await Role("dev-role", {
  organization: "my-org", // Required when using string database and branch names
  database: "my-database",
  branch: "main",
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"],
});
```

:::warning
If both the database and branch are provided as strings, you must provide your organization name as well.
:::

## Role with Inherited Permissions

Create a role with inherited permissions from another role:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role1 = await Role("role-1", {
  database,
  branch,
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"],
});

const role2 = await Role("role-2", {
  database,
  branch,
  inheritedRoles: role1, // ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"]
});
```

## Role with TTL

Create a role with a 1-hour time-to-live:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const temporaryRole = await Role("temp-role", {
  database,
  branch,
  ttl: 3600, // 1 hour in seconds
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data"],
});
```

## Role with Read-Only Access

Create a role with read-only permissions:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const readOnlyRole = await Role("reader", {
  database,
  inheritedRoles: [
    "pg_read_all_data",
    "pg_read_all_settings",
    "pg_read_all_stats"
  ],
});
```

## Role with Monitor Permissions

Create a role with monitoring and maintenance permissions:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const monitorRole = await Role("monitor", {
  database: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  inheritedRoles: [
    "pg_monitor",
    "pg_read_all_settings",
    "pg_read_all_stats",
    "pg_stat_scan_tables"
  ],
});
```

## Accessing Connection Details

Once created, the role provides connection details:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
});

// Access connection details
console.log("Host:", role.host);
console.log("Username:", role.username);
console.log("Database Name:", role.databaseName);
console.log("Expires At:", role.expiresAt);

// Use connection URLs
const directConnection = role.connectionUrl; // Port 5432
const pooledConnection = role.connectionUrlPooled; // Port 6432 (recommended)
```

## Using with Hyperdrive

Roles work seamlessly with Cloudflare Hyperdrive for connection pooling:

```ts
import { Role, Database } from "alchemy/planetscale";
import { Hyperdrive } from "alchemy/cloudflare";

const database = await Database("my-db", {
  name: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
  kind: "postgresql",
});

const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database: database,
  branch: database.defaultBranch,
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
});

const hyperdrive = await Hyperdrive("my-hyperdrive", {
  origin: role.connectionUrl,
  caching: { disabled: true },
});
```

## Available Inherited Roles

The following PostgreSQL roles can be inherited:

- **`postgres`** - Superuser role with all privileges
- **`pg_read_all_data`** - Read access to all tables and views
- **`pg_write_all_data`** - Write access to all tables
- **`pg_read_all_settings`** - Read access to all configuration parameters
- **`pg_read_all_stats`** - Read access to all statistics views
- **`pg_monitor`** - Monitor database activity and statistics
- **`pg_checkpoint`** - Execute checkpoints
- **`pg_create_subscription`** - Create logical replication subscriptions
- **`pg_maintain`** - Execute maintenance operations
- **`pg_signal_backend`** - Send signals to other backends
- **`pg_stat_scan_tables`** - Execute monitoring functions that may take locks
- **`pg_use_reserved_connections`** - Use reserved connection slots

Commit message:

feat(planetscale): allow planetscale resources to be not deleted (#1118)

alchemy-web/src/content/docs/providers/planetscale/role.md, after:

---
title: Role
description: Learn how to create and manage PostgreSQL database roles for PlanetScale PostgreSQL branches using Alchemy.
---

The Role resource lets you create and manage [database roles](https://planetscale.com/docs/postgres/roles) for PlanetScale PostgreSQL branches with specific permissions and time-to-live settings.

:::note
Roles are only available for PostgreSQL databases. For MySQL databases, use the [Password](/providers/planetscale/password) resource instead.
:::

## Minimal Example

Create a basic role with full administrator privileges for the `main` branch:

```ts
import { Database, Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const database = await Database("my-db", {
  name: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
  kind: "postgresql",
});
const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database,
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
});
```

:::warning
The `"postgres"` role provides full administrator access to the database. While this can be useful in development, we recommend following the [principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege) and creating roles with specific permissions instead, particularly for production environments.
:::

## Deletion

By default, when a role is deleted, the role will be removed from the state but not deleted via API. This is to prevent accidental loss of data. This setting can be changed by setting the `delete` property to `true`.

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database,
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
  delete: true,
});
```

## Role with Specific Branch

Create a role for a specific branch:

```ts
import { Role, Database, Branch } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const database = await Database("my-db", {
  name: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
  kind: "postgresql",
});

const branch = await Branch("dev-branch", {
  name: "development",
  organization: "my-org",
  database,
  parentBranch: "main",
});

const role = await Role("dev-role", {
  database,
  branch,
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"],
});
```

## Role with Named Database and Branch

You can pass in the database and branch names as strings instead of using the Database and Branch resources. This is useful if you've defined the database or branch outside of Alchemy:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role = await Role("dev-role", {
  organization: "my-org", // Required when using string database and branch names
  database: "my-database",
  branch: "main",
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"],
});
```

:::warning
If both the database and branch are provided as strings, you must provide your organization name as well.
:::

## Role with Inherited Permissions

Create a role with inherited permissions from another role:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role1 = await Role("role-1", {
  database,
  branch,
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"],
});

const role2 = await Role("role-2", {
  database,
  branch,
  inheritedRoles: role1, // ["pg_read_all_data", "pg_write_all_data"]
});
```

## Role with TTL

Create a role with a 1-hour time-to-live:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const temporaryRole = await Role("temp-role", {
  database,
  branch,
  ttl: 3600, // 1 hour in seconds
  inheritedRoles: ["pg_read_all_data"],
});
```

## Role with Read-Only Access

Create a role with read-only permissions:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const readOnlyRole = await Role("reader", {
  database,
  inheritedRoles: [
    "pg_read_all_data",
    "pg_read_all_settings",
    "pg_read_all_stats"
  ],
});
```

## Role with Monitor Permissions

Create a role with monitoring and maintenance permissions:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const monitorRole = await Role("monitor", {
  database: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  inheritedRoles: [
    "pg_monitor",
    "pg_read_all_settings",
    "pg_read_all_stats",
    "pg_stat_scan_tables"
  ],
});
```

## Accessing Connection Details

Once created, the role provides connection details:

```ts
import { Role } from "alchemy/planetscale";

const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
});

// Access connection details
console.log("Host:", role.host);
console.log("Username:", role.username);
console.log("Database Name:", role.databaseName);
console.log("Expires At:", role.expiresAt);

// Use connection URLs
const directConnection = role.connectionUrl; // Port 5432
const pooledConnection = role.connectionUrlPooled; // Port 6432 (recommended)
```

## Using with Hyperdrive

Roles work seamlessly with Cloudflare Hyperdrive for connection pooling:

```ts
import { Role, Database } from "alchemy/planetscale";
import { Hyperdrive } from "alchemy/cloudflare";

const database = await Database("my-db", {
  name: "my-database",
  organization: "my-org",
  clusterSize: "PS_10",
  kind: "postgresql",
});

const role = await Role("app-role", {
  database: database,
  branch: database.defaultBranch,
  inheritedRoles: ["postgres"],
});

const hyperdrive = await Hyperdrive("my-hyperdrive", {
  origin: role.connectionUrl,
  caching: { disabled: true },
});
```

## Available Inherited Roles

The following PostgreSQL roles can be inherited:

- **`postgres`** - Superuser role with all privileges
- **`pg_read_all_data`** - Read access to all tables and views
- **`pg_write_all_data`** - Write access to all tables
- **`pg_read_all_settings`** - Read access to all configuration parameters
- **`pg_read_all_stats`** - Read access to all statistics views
- **`pg_monitor`** - Monitor database activity and statistics
- **`pg_checkpoint`** - Execute checkpoints
- **`pg_create_subscription`** - Create logical replication subscriptions
- **`pg_maintain`** - Execute maintenance operations
- **`pg_signal_backend`** - Send signals to other backends
- **`pg_stat_scan_tables`** - Execute monitoring functions that may take locks
- **`pg_use_reserved_connections`** - Use reserved connection slots
